chore(blog): add node 6 blog post (#14887)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/blog/2019-06-21-dropping-support-for-node-6/index.md

---
title: "Dropping Support for Node 6"
date: 2019-06-21
author: Dustin Schau
excerpt: "We're dropping support for Node 6 in minor releases of core Gatsby packages. Learn more about why this decision was made."
tags:
  - core
  - deprecation
---

> Effective in Gatsby v2.10.0, we are making a potentially breaking change and dropping support for Node 6. We don't take this decision lightly, and realize that there is _potential_ for breaking applications by not following [semantic versioning][semver] _strictly_ and releasing Gatsby v3.0.0. However, we feel that this decision is in the best interest of our users and enables the Gatsby Core team to focus more efficiently on delivering fixes and features. In this post, I outline the reasoning for why we're making this decision and how it potentially impacts you, a Gatsby user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Effective in Gatsby v2.10.0, we are making a potentially breaking change and dropping support for Node 6. We don't take this decision lightly, and realize that there is _potential_ for breaking applications by not releasing this as releasing Gatsby v3.0.0 (if following [semantic versioning][semver] _strictly_). However, we feel that this decision is in the best interest of our users and enables the Gatsby Core team to focus more efficiently on delivering fixes and features. In this post, I outline the reasoning for why we're making this decision and how it potentially impacts you, a Gatsby user.
```

Author: Not sure this is meaningfully improved. Could you provide a little more context?

> We don't take this decision lightly, and realize that there is _potential_ for breaking applications by not releasing this as releasing Gatsby v3.0.0 (if following [semantic versioning][semver] _strictly_)

> We don't take this decision lightly, and realize that there is _potential_ for breaking applications by not following [semantic versioning][semver] _strictly_ and releasing Gatsby v3.0.0

1. Used `async`, `await`, and other non-supported features in Node 6 in our documentation
   - Copying code directly from the docs will manifest a runtime error in Node 6, and will gently guide towards updating to Node 8 or greater
1. [Documented that our minimum supported version is Node 8 or greater][node-8-docs]

These approaches jointly served as a gentle guide towards encouraging users to upgrade to Node 8 _prior to this breaking change._ However, up to this point, I haven't defended why we're making the breaking change. Let me do just that.

## Why a Breaking Change?

We don't take lightly the potential for breaking changes. Our ultimate goal in publishing versions of Gatsby and plugins is that we _never_ want to make a breaking change without a major version bump. In fact, our approach is to publish early and often so that we can get new features and fixes in user's hands as soon as possible. Our intent is that users will update their Gatsby dependencies regularly and often to get these new features and fixes as quickly as possible. This model crucially depends upon trust in being able to upgrade these dependencies as often as we ship them.

> However, we have regularly and repeatedly found it extremely challenging to keep delivering these valuable features and fixes while still maintaining support for Node 6. Many of our dependencies (and further still, dependencies of our dependencies) have dropped support for Node 6 in minor releases, thereby preventing Gatsby from using these dependencies to get needed features and fixes.

Reviewer 2: I would put this at the very top — we're not at all interested in dropping support for node 6 — the only reason we are is because we're forced into it.

> However, we have regularly and repeatedly found it extremely challenging to keep delivering these valuable features and fixes while still maintaining support for Node 6. Many of our dependencies (and further still, dependencies of our dependencies) have dropped support for Node 6 in minor releases, thereby preventing Gatsby from using these dependencies to get needed features and fixes.

Author: The examples I provide are examples of this! e.g. the skipping unit tests in Node 6 because remark-mdx dropped support (dependency of gatsby-remark-responsive-iframe). Perhaps I can spell this out more clearly?

Further still continuing to support Node 6 is making it more challenging to publish early and often. Pull requests, particularly those implemented by the Gatsby Core team, need extra time to ensure we have the necessary checks and workarounds to maintain Node 6 support. As an example, consider the excellent PR to [rework our CLI to use Ink](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/13089). We had to introduce a [separate entry point](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/13089/files/3a61ec690eebc814084432cbd3645765f4dfa109#diff-ff3f290e45718ddc8e9f3d6bdb59e7f5) for versions of Node prior to Node 8 because our dependency Ink does not support Node 6.

```js
const semver = require(`semver`)
const { isCI } = require(`ci-info`)

if (semver.satisfies(process.version, `>=8`) && !isCI) {
  module.exports = require(`./ink`).default
} else {
  module.exports = require(`./yurnalist`)
}
```

> Consider [another recent PR](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/13913/files) where a dependency didn't support Node 6, so we were forced to introduce a mechanism to skip the tests in Node 6 to pass our Continuous Integration (CI) test suite. How very [_Volkswagen_][vw-test-suite] of us 😈

Reviewer: 😂

![Percentage of Node 6 users vs. Gatsby versions](./images/node-6-usage.png)

Relying upon this data, we feel confident that while this is a theoretical breaking change it will impact a very small percentage of real-world users and use-cases. If you are impacted by this breaking change, we have put together a [handy upgrade guide](https://gatsby.dev/upgrading-node-js). Upgrading from Node 6 is inherently valuable _outside_ of a Gatsby context as it has reached its ["End of Life (EOL)"](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) from the Node foundation and will no longer receive critical security fixes and bug fixes.

Finally, if you're interested, I'll now go into some technical detail as to _how_ we're actually making this breaking change.

## Technical Detail of the Breaking Change

> The technical detail of this change is actually quite simple. All of our packages rely upon a shared [Babel preset (`babel-preset-gatsby-package`)][babel-preset-gatsby-package]. Upon a publish, we use [`@babel/preset-env`][babel-preset-env] to transpile our packages for our minimum Node.js supported version, which was previously `6.0`. In the [PR introducing this breaking change][pr], we change the `target` to `8.0` which will transpile our packages to Node.js syntax supported in Node 8 and newer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The technical details of this change are actually quite simple. All of our packages rely upon a shared [Babel preset (`babel-preset-gatsby-package`)][babel-preset-gatsby-package]. Upon a publish, we use [`@babel/preset-env`][babel-preset-env] to transpile our packages for our minimum Node.js supported version, which was previously `6.0`. In the [PR introducing this breaking change][pr], we change the `target` to `8.0` which will transpile our packages to Node.js syntax supported in Node 8 and newer.
```
